scientists aren't normal people is a
phrase I hear a lot is this all we care
about is science all day every day
because we just happen to pop out of the
ground that way and the dwarfs just what
does what all scientists started out as
kids learning about the world they just
kind of got distracted enough by their
curiosity about the world around them
when they were growing up to end up with
a career as a scientist a career trying
to figure out the answers to questions
that no one knows the answer to how you
go though from kid in school to fully
fledged scientists is not exactly clear
to many people because unless you have a
scientist in your family or in your
friendship group you're not really gonna
know how that happens and there'll be
many people out there that are probably
curious about how you go about becoming
a scientist mainly because they want to
walk that path themselves so I figured
today I'd sit down and tell you my path
from kid at school learning all they
could to working as an astrophysicist
I'm also going to talk about cost at
each stage she's not exactly the British
thing to do but I think it's important
money isn't everything but I know that
it factors into a lot of people's
decisions about whether to pursue
further education so I didn't feel like
it was something that I could leave out
and finally just before I get into this
I want to acknowledge that my path comes
from a place of great privilege I was
very lucky to be born in a country where
girls education is a given it's not
questioned I was very lucky to have
parents that were so supportive both
emotionally but also financially for any
decision that I decided to make and also
I went to an all-girls school and that
allowed me to grow up away from those
sort of weird societal norms that say
that there are subjects that girls do
and girls don't do which is the
stupidest thing I've ever heard please
don't ever tell any kid that I just went
to a school where there was the subjects
the cool kids didn't the subject the
cool kids didn't do and obviously the
cool kids did physics so I want to start
when I was 14 years old in high school
this was year 10 in the UK and physics
was my least favorite subject
surprisingly I even remember vividly
like my French oral for my GCSE being
like drag I least wear measure D
technique kind of very high pitched
voice in school but luckily for me
science was a compulsory subject for all
people in the UK taking GCSEs and so
that by the time I was 16 physics had
actually become my favourite subject
because we've stopped doing all the
stuff that we were doing in the lower
years on like forces and light travels
in straight lines and we started doing
really cool stuff like radioactivity and
astronomy and astronomy was something
that I had loved since I was a kid I was
obsessed with space and it was at that
point I realized that actually space is
physics and so if I wanted to learn more
about it I'd need to take physics so
when I was 16 and it came to picking the
four subjects that I would take further
into my final two years of high school
so I chose maths further maths physics
and chemistry but I chose them because
they were my favourites
objects at the end of the day when I'd
come back with a huge pile of homework
at home they were always the ones that I
would pick off of the pile first to be
like well let's get the maths homework
done first because I can do that and I
get it and we'll deal with that massive
English essay later I ended up getting
all A's in my final exams for my a
levels which I am still immensely proud
of to this day now good grades aren't
everything to traveling the path to
being a scientist like for me they were
literally just a hoop to jump through in
order to get into university but you'll
find that good grades do open more doors
for you so just remember practice makes
perfect you wouldn't expect to pick up a
violin and be amazing at it the first
time round
you can't immediately become fluent in a
language overnight it's the same for
math and science you really got to work
at it until it becomes second nature to
you but those grades meant that I got
into Durham University to study physics
with astronomy when I was 18 I loved my
time at university I went to Ayden's
College Durham I met some absolutely
wonderful people and lifelong friends I
got to use the telescopes on top of the
roof of the physics department which was
awesome and also had some incredible
nights out while I was there as well I
was there for four years because I did
what's called an undergraduate master's
degree so instead of doing normal
university degree where you just get
like a Bachelors of Science and then you
graduate and then you go on to do your
masters I did my masters
all the while without graduating so my
friends might have graduated after three
years I didn't graduate until four years
so my first three years were essentially
just being taught lots of lectures a
couple of different like lab projects
and then in my fourth year it was all
about research half of my entire mark
for the year was going to be the
research project that I was doing with a
project supervisor who was a sort of a
professor or a researcher in the
department who is basically advising
like what science we would do and what
questions we were asking now I didn't
pay for my university course I took a
student loan which is very commonplace
in the UK there's this massive central
system that's all done through the
government it was about three
thousand two to five I think per year
intuition and then three thousand a year
is a living cost loan so every year I
was essentially borrowing just over six
thousand pounds to go to university
times that by four years and I ended up
with probably about a twenty five
thousand pound loan okay that's a lot of
money the whole idea is that you do not
start paying it back until you start
earning and it comes straight off your
wage as well so it's almost like you
don't miss it because you never see it
before you pay it back also you pay it
off in proportion to how much you're
earning and it's sort of exponential so
the more you earn the more you will pay
off but if you haven't paid it off after
25 years since you started earning then
it kind of gets written off by the
government anyway of course since I went
to university UK tuition fees have
actually increased from just over three
thousand a year to nine thousand a year
so I understand that people thinking
about going to university in the UK
today thinking about a much larger loan
than I ever had so after I graduated I
actually went to the Bahamas for six
weeks to learn how to scuba dive but
also I was doing a lot of marine
conservation there it was fantastic
scuba diving is still one of my
favourite things and I'd do it as often
as I can which is not often enough and
one of the reasons I did that was
because I was terrified to leave
University I was terrified to graduate I
was terrified to find a job I didn't
know what I wanted to do still I didn't
really think I wanted to do research cuz
I just done that research project and it
was okay and it was fun but you know
there was other things out there in the
world and I was kind of putting it off
for a very long time thinking about what
I actually wanted to do and so I did the
classic thing that you shouldn't do
which is I did what everyone else was
doing
if Millhouse jumped off a cliff nihlus
jumped off a cliff and there which was
applying for graduate schemes companies
that have these big schemes to hire
graduates fresh out of university and
train them how they want to be trained
so that they can progress through the
company and my idea was that I wanted to
do satellite technology I wanted to work
in the space industry you know launching
things on rockets and getting things
into space because I saw that sounded
really cool and I couldn't get a job
directly with
company say Astrium which is the UK
satellite company I did apply for them
but I didn't get the job but I did get a
job with rolls-royce who don't make cars
they make jet engines and I figured jet
engines Rockets they're not that far
apart the thing is it was an engineering
grad scheme it wasn't a physics grad
team it wasn't a research grad scheme
either so I realized very quickly that
even though I was doing very similar
things to what I've been doing in my
research project in my Master's you know
sitting crunching data sitting at a desk
all day and solving problems I wasn't
doing it for any reason that I cared
about I didn't care about the
engineering things we were talking about
like test beds for jet engines and stuff
so every meeting to me was kind of
boring and I just really missed talking
about space all day and I missed talking
about the galaxies and stars and black
holes even though I started in September
by the November I was ringing my master
supervisor again saying I think I've
made a terrible mistake
and I really want to come back to
astrophysics because I've remembered
that yeah I want to be a scientist I
want to think and answer questions that
no one knows the answer to that that's
what I want to do and what I want my job
to be so it took me a while and figuring
out what I actually wanted to do with my
life because basically that was my fault
because I procrastinated the decision
but I got there in the end
also note that some of my friends told
me I was absolutely crazy at this point
because I was leaving a very good job
that was paying something like
twenty-eight thousand pounds a year to
go back into education and do a PhD and
that was what I did at 23 I started a
PhD at Oxford researching all about how
galaxies changed their shape over the
lifetime of the universe and I had never
been happier I didn't care about that
paper I'd gone from what 28 grand a year
to being paid a grant of about thirteen
thousand pounds a year which was
tax-free didn't I pay my student loan
back national insurance free and so it
was essentially like being paid a wage
of about twenty thousand pounds after
tax I was really happy I was talking
about space again and I was working
towards writing my thesis this huge big
document that essentially out lies all
of the independent
research that you've done over three
years under the supervision of your PhD
supervisor advisor and a PhD is there to
prove that you are an independent
researcher by the end of it that you can
come up with a question that we can ask
about the universe or the world that we
live in and most crucially a feasible
way of actually trying to answer that
question and then you can report back on
it get your findings published and show
to the world that you are someone who is
knowledgeable and an expert in that
incredibly specific subject that you
have focused on during your PhD during
my PhD I got to go all around the world
on conferences presenting my results
talking to other researchers I've got to
use telescopes in La Palma and in Hawaii
as well which I still can't get over the
fact that they pay you to go to Hawaii
before I could graduate from my PhD
though I had to prove that it really was
all my work and so I had to go into a
thesis defense exam what we call a vive
it's essentially an exam where you sit
in a room with two other people who are
experts in your field
they've read your thesis beforehand and
then they pour over it and question you
on every specific tiny little detail in
there thankfully I passed my fiver
after a three-hour grilling from my
examiner's and I've just realized that
I'm recording this on the 3-year
anniversary of passing my viber as well
so kind of all the feels right now since
then I've had two jobs as an
astrophysicist in universities doing
research one at Nottingham for two years
and now in Oxford which I've been there
for 18 months and both of those jobs are
what are called research fellowships so
instead of a professor who has specific
research that they want doing until they
advertise that job for someone to apply
to do it a fellowship is like we have
this pot of money tell us what research
you would like to do and if we like it
we will pay you to do that research so
at Nottingham I started on a similar
salary to what I'd left rolls-royce at
so I bounced straight back again after
my PhD and then when I moved to Oxford
my wage increased about 20% more
top of that as well which means I'm now
paying back about a hundred and twenty
quid a month or so on my student loan
it's not much at all I think every
decision I've ever made has always been
motivated by a piece of advice my dad
gave me when I was younger which was do
something you love and you'll never work
another day again in your life and
that's always resonated with me so at
school
I picked subjects I absolutely loved
because I knew that I would actually
want to learn and want to do the work
and therefore get good grades at
university I did a subject I loved
because I knew that it would eventually
lead to a career that I loved even if I
didn't know what that was at the time
and then I went to do a PhD because I
knew that that was the way that I would
get to call myself an astrophysicist a
scientist and I would be able to do what
I loved every single day which was talk
about space and answer the questions
that we still don't know the answers to
or at least try to do them because I'm
still learning all scientists are still
learning all the time whether it's about
the universe or a disease or computers
and by getting new people into science
we get different viewpoints on problems
that haven't been solved for decades and
we learn more and that's always what
I've loved to do in life is to learn and
be amazed that we even have the hope of
understanding a tiny fragment and what
the universe has to offer dance monkey
dance monkey dance monkey tangled in
Malaya I think about this new angle oh I
don't know about it I don't know how I
feel we've rearranged the room for
guests and now I'm this way and you're
there rather there and I'm like because
when you're 15 and somebody tells you
love physics I'm gonna believe them oh
sorry I just got completely distracted
by Instagram and totally
though it's still recording Oh Becky
we're done now
you